---
layout: post
title: "eBPF notes 1"
date: 2018-06-11 11:00:00 +0530
categories: Tracing
---

Two programs are required for working with eBPF,

-   **Userspace program to do the house keeping including,**

    Load the ebpf binary into the kernel via the `bpf()` syscall. The
    `load_bpf_file()` function does the following in order to load the bpf file.
    -   For each section of the BPF ELF file,
    	-   If section contains `maps`, `load_bpf_file()` creates the
	    maps structure inside the kernel by invoking the `bpf()`
	    syscall with the `BPF_MAP_CREATE` as the command.
		    -   The fd for each map (returned by `bpf()` syscall) is stored in the
            	    	`map_fd[]` array.
	-   If section contains `kprobe/<func-name>`, `load_bpf_file()` creates a
            new probe by invoking,
        
	            $ echo p:<func-name> >> /sys/kernel/debug/tracing/kprobe_events
    
		-   Get the id of the new kprobe event. Fill up the `struct
              	    perf_event_attr` structure's `config` member using this id.
	        -   Invoke the syscall sys\_perf\_event\_open() to open the event fd.
		-   Enable the event by invoking `PERF_EVENT_IOC_ENABLE` ioctl.
		-   Attach the BPF program to the perf event by passing the "fd"
		    corresponding to the BPF program to the `PERF_EVENT_IOC_SET_BPF` ioctl
		    call. i.e. `ioctl(efd, PERF_EVENT_IOC_SET_BPF, fd);`

-   **BPF program executing in the kernel:**
    -   The BPF program will be compiled into the native machine language using
        the JIT compiler.
    -   The BPF program gets executed when the corresponding kprobe gets triggered.
    -   The BPF program now has access to the `struct pt_regs` context structure.
    -   It can do the required computation and send the data back to the
        userspace using `bpf_trace_printk()` or via maps.

Many thanks to my colleagues Naveen N Rao and Sandipan Das for answering my queries regarding eBPF.
